README.md, before:

# RPZ-Blocklists

Multi-Source RPZ Blocklists for DNS Filtering (automated conversion and updates)

This repository provides categorized, automatically converted Response Policy Zone (RPZ) blocklists from various free sources. The goal is to offer an easy-to-use, regularly updated collection for DNS filtering with Unbound or any RPZ-compatible resolver.

## Repository Structure

```text
RPZ-Blocklists/
├── ads/         # RPZ files for ad and tracker domains
├── malware/     # RPZ files for malware and malicious domains
├── phishing/    # RPZ files for phishing and fraud domains
├── tracking/    # RPZ files for tracking and spyware domains
├── misc/        # RPZ files for mixed or uncategorized sources
├── tools/
│   ├── urllist.txt             # List of all blocklist sources (<category>,<url> per line)
│   ├── list-mappings.csv       # Mapping of sources to categories and licenses
│   ├── blocklist2rpz-multi.pl  # Perl script to convert and validate blocklists
│   ├── LICENSE                 # GPLv3 license for the conversion script
│   └── logs/                   # (Git-ignored) log files for errors, status, validation
└── README.md
```

## How to Use

- Edit Blocklist Sources:
- Edit tools/urllist.txt to add or remove blocklist sources.
- The file must use the format <category>,<url> (e.g. ads,https://example.org/hosts.txt).
- Categories determine the output subdirectory.
- Map sources to categories in tools/list-mappings.csv.
- Add new categories under `RPZ_DIRS:` in update-rpz.yml

Convert Lists to RPZ:
Use the Perl script to fetch, convert, and validate blocklists. Example:

```bash
perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl -w -d ./ -l tools/urllist.txt \
  -e tools/logs/error_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).log \
  -s tools/logs/status_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).txt \
  --validate --validation-report tools/logs/validation_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).txt
```

Explanation:
-  -w enables wildcard entries.
-  -d sets the output base directory (here: current directory, subfolders by category).
-  -l specifies the source list.
-  --validate checks the generated RPZ files.
-  --validation-report writes a validation summary.
-  -e and -s write error and status logs (recommended: use tools/logs/).
-  Run `perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl --help` for more options.

## Integrate with Unbound (or similar):

The generated .rpz files can be included in your DNS resolver configuration.

## Current Categories

- ads: Ad and tracker domains
- malware: Malware, botnets, exploit domains
- phishing: Phishing and fraud domains
- tracking: Tracking, spyware, telemetry
- misc: Mixed or uncategorized sources

## Automation with GitHub Actions

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically updates all RPZ blocklists hourly.

The workflow:

- File: [.github/workflows/update-rpz.yml](.github/workflows/update-rpz.yml) .
- Trigger: Hourly cron (0 * * * *) or manual via workflow_dispatch
- Checks out the repository.
- Installs Perl 5.36 and required CPAN modules (LWP::UserAgent, LWP::Protocol::https, IO::Socket::SSL, Text::CSV).
- Caches CPAN modules to speed up builds.
- Generates RPZ files using blocklist2rpz-multi.pl based on tools/urllist.txt and tools/list-mappings.csv.
- Validates generated RPZ files and logs results to tools/logs/.
- Commits and pushes updated .rpz files to the main branch.
- Logs: Available as rpz-logs artifact (status, validation, error logs).
- Manual Runs: Trigger via the GitHub Actions tab.

*Tip: Locally generated RPZ files are not required; the workflow will always generate fresh lists on the server.*

## Logging and .gitignore

- All logs (error, status, validation) are stored in tools/logs/ and excluded from the repository via .gitignore.
- This keeps the repository clean and avoids committing large or sensitive log files.

## Notes

- Blocklists are updated and validated regularly.
- All tools and configuration files are located in the tools/ directory.
- Failed or unreachable sources are logged automatically.
- The script warns if a GitHub HTML URL is detected (use RAW URLs!).

## Data Privacy

This project complies with GDPR and does not process personal data. All blocklists are publicly available and used for security purposes.

## How to Contribute

Add new blocklist sources to tools/urllist.txt and map them in tools/list-mappings.csv.
Test changes locally using:
```bash
perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl -w -d ./ -l tools/urllist.txt -m tools/list-mappings.csv
```

Contributions and suggestions for new high-quality sources are welcome! Feel free to open an issue or pull request.

## Licenses

Each RPZ file includes its license information in the header, sourced from [tools/list-mappings.csv](tools/list-mappings.csv). Note that malware_kadhosts.rpz is licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 as required by KADhosts. The conversion script (blocklist2rpz-multi.pl) is licensed under GPLv3 (see [tools/LICENSE](tools/LICENSE)).

## Special Thanks

- FiltersHeroes, AdAway, and all blocklist maintainers for their open-source contributions
- The open-source community for keeping the internet safer

Commit message:

Added links for CONTRIBUTIONS.md and git-guide.md

README.md, after:

# RPZ-Blocklists

Multi-Source RPZ Blocklists for DNS Filtering (automated conversion and updates)

This repository provides categorized, automatically converted Response Policy Zone (RPZ) blocklists from various free sources. The goal is to offer an easy-to-use, regularly updated collection for DNS filtering with Unbound or any RPZ-compatible resolver.

## Repository Structure

```text
RPZ-Blocklists/
├── ads/         # RPZ files for ad and tracker domains
├── malware/     # RPZ files for malware and malicious domains
├── phishing/    # RPZ files for phishing and fraud domains
├── tracking/    # RPZ files for tracking and spyware domains
├── misc/        # RPZ files for mixed or uncategorized sources
├── tools/
│   ├── urllist.txt             # List of all blocklist sources (<category>,<url> per line)
│   ├── list-mappings.csv       # Mapping of sources to categories and licenses
│   ├── blocklist2rpz-multi.pl  # Perl script to convert and validate blocklists
│   ├── LICENSE                 # GPLv3 license for the conversion script
│   └── logs/                   # (Git-ignored) log files for errors, status, validation
└── README.md
```

## How to Use

- Edit Blocklist Sources:
- Edit tools/urllist.txt to add or remove blocklist sources.
- The file must use the format <category>,<url> (e.g. ads,https://example.org/hosts.txt).
- Categories determine the output subdirectory.
- Map sources to categories in tools/list-mappings.csv.
- Add new categories under `RPZ_DIRS:` in update-rpz.yml

Convert Lists to RPZ:
Use the Perl script to fetch, convert, and validate blocklists. Example:

```bash
perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl -w -d ./ -l tools/urllist.txt \
  -e tools/logs/error_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).log \
  -s tools/logs/status_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).txt \
  --validate --validation-report tools/logs/validation_$(date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S).txt
```

Explanation:
-  -w enables wildcard entries.
-  -d sets the output base directory (here: current directory, subfolders by category).
-  -l specifies the source list.
-  --validate checks the generated RPZ files.
-  --validation-report writes a validation summary.
-  -e and -s write error and status logs (recommended: use tools/logs/).
-  Run `perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl --help` for more options.

## Integrate with Unbound (or similar):

The generated .rpz files can be included in your DNS resolver configuration.

## Current Categories

- ads: Ad and tracker domains
- malware: Malware, botnets, exploit domains
- phishing: Phishing and fraud domains
- tracking: Tracking, spyware, telemetry
- misc: Mixed or uncategorized sources

## Automation with GitHub Actions

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically updates all RPZ blocklists hourly.

The workflow:

- File: [.github/workflows/update-rpz.yml](.github/workflows/update-rpz.yml) .
- Trigger: Hourly cron (0 * * * *) or manual via workflow_dispatch
- Checks out the repository.
- Installs Perl 5.36 and required CPAN modules (LWP::UserAgent, LWP::Protocol::https, IO::Socket::SSL, Text::CSV).
- Caches CPAN modules to speed up builds.
- Generates RPZ files using blocklist2rpz-multi.pl based on tools/urllist.txt and tools/list-mappings.csv.
- Validates generated RPZ files and logs results to tools/logs/.
- Commits and pushes updated .rpz files to the main branch.
- Logs: Available as rpz-logs artifact (status, validation, error logs).
- Manual Runs: Trigger via the GitHub Actions tab.

*Tip: Locally generated RPZ files are not required; the workflow will always generate fresh lists on the server.*

## Logging and .gitignore

- All logs (error, status, validation) are stored in tools/logs/ and excluded from the repository via .gitignore.
- This keeps the repository clean and avoids committing large or sensitive log files.

## Notes

- Blocklists are updated and validated regularly.
- All tools and configuration files are located in the tools/ directory.
- Failed or unreachable sources are logged automatically.
- The script warns if a GitHub HTML URL is detected (use RAW URLs!).

## Data Privacy

This project complies with GDPR and does not process personal data. All blocklists are publicly available and used for security purposes.

## How to Contribute

Add new blocklist sources to tools/urllist.txt and map them in tools/list-mappings.csv.
Test changes locally using:
```bash
perl tools/blocklist2rpz-multi.pl -w -d ./ -l tools/urllist.txt -m tools/list-mappings.csv
```

Contributions and suggestions for new high-quality sources are welcome, in here https://github.com/twitOne/RPZ-Blocklists/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md you can find further informations for contribution and here https://github.com/twitOne/RPZ-Blocklists/blob/main/git-guide.md you can find a Git Guide for best practice!
Feel free to open an issue or pull request.

## Licenses

Each RPZ file includes its license information in the header, sourced from [tools/list-mappings.csv](tools/list-mappings.csv). Note that malware_kadhosts.rpz is licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 as required by KADhosts. The conversion script (blocklist2rpz-multi.pl) is licensed under GPLv3 (see [tools/LICENSE](tools/LICENSE)).

## Special Thanks

- FiltersHeroes, AdAway, and all blocklist maintainers for their open-source contributions
- The open-source community for keeping the internet safer
